---
layout: post
title: "Memoize"
date: 2025-06-23 15:50:00 -0400
categories: apprenticeship update
---

Today I studied memoization, and it was pretty cool to see the effects.

I started by messing around in the REPL with a Fibonacci function to get
a feel for how it works. I ran it without memoization and then with it, and the
time difference was kind of wild:

```clojure

=> #'tic-tac-toe.main/m-fib
(time (fib 40))
"Elapsed time: 2880.218334 msecs"
=> 165580141
(time (m-fib 40))
"Elapsed time: 0.19625 msecs"
=> 165580141

```

Got the same result, but the second one took a fraction of the time because
it remembered the previous calls. Seeing it laid out that clearly like this 
made me see the power of it. But I wanted to explore the workings even deeper.
I watched a video to truly see the graphs being cut down when running into 
same boards with same input. 

Once I had that working, I brought it into my Tic Tac Toe AI. My minimax
function was getting slow as it explored deeper board states. This was the 
exact problem memoization is good for. Rather than recalculating outcomes for
the same boards over and over again, it now just grabs them from memory if it’s
already seen them.

```clojure

(def memoized-minimax (memoize minimax))

(defn ->score-one-move [next-board token max-token depth]
  (memoized-minimax next-board (board/switch-player token) max-token (inc depth)))

```

After making that change, the game dropped from over 10 seconds down to under
0.2 seconds to compute an expert AI move.

Another successful TDD progression. I built what I needed first and optimized
later when the problem actually called for it.

I'm impressed in the way this apprenticeship is preparing me for problems and
tasks ahead. I'm starting to see the rewards promised through these practices.