---
layout: post
title:  "The Proof"
date:   2025-06-04 14:55:00 -0400
categories: apprenticeship update
---

Today I did some more refactoring and review on my Tic Tac Toe project. I took time to revisit and reinforce
some of the newer concepts I worked with throughout the week. Things like redefs, stubbing functions, 
capturing console input/output using with-in-str and with-out-str. All of these tools came together to make
testing and debugging a more thoughtful part of my process, not an afterthought.

I also spent time practicing my Interface Segregation Principle presentation. I like turning what I’ve learned
into something I can teach. Explaining ideas like fat interfaces and making smaller, more focused abstractions
is making me a better communicator.

IPM this week went really well. I got detailed, constructive feedback. It wasn’t just “here’s what didn’t work,”
it was “here’s how to make what’s working even better.” That shift feels like proof that I’m becoming a better
programmer and that much closer to feeling like a craftsman.

Even more important: this week was productive without the late nights. I completed what needed to be done without
working late into the night or grinding through the weekend. I finally felt like I got my estimate right. I feel that
it didn’t happen by chance, it came from really breaking down the story, mapping what was new vs. familiar, and
adding margin for the unknowns.

I tried to approach this coming week the same way. I reviewed the upcoming work, walked through the code, and started
putting together a game plan. I was flagging areas that will need more attention, assigning more pessimistic estimates
where things feel less familiar.

Taking that extra time upfront helped a lot last week, and I’m hoping it pays off again. Feeling a little more
confident heading into this iteration.

Here’s to another good seven days.